Transfer Applicants
Welcome! We’re excited that you’re interested in becoming a Bruin. This page will take you through the basics and lead you to the detailed information you need.

Beginning Your Application
You may apply for admission as a transfer if you meet the following criteria:   

You graduated from high school and completed college-level coursework in a regular session at any college or university since your graduation.
Note: You cannot disregard your college record and apply as a first-year student. We do not accept applications from students seeking second baccalaureate degrees.

To begin the application process, use the University of California's online application (UC Application).

Take me to the UC Application
Admission Considerations and Requirements
When it comes to reviewing transfer applicants, we carefully balance consideration of the full range of faculty-approved criteria to gain a complete sense of each student’s achievements. Some factors are more easily quantifiable than others.

Good preparation and a strong academic performance make you a more competitive candidate during the admission review process. The average GPA of admitted transfer students is above 3.5 and admitted students have completed most or all major prep courses. We give highest priority to applicants from California community colleges. We admit students for fall quarter only.

We consider the following criteria:

Academic Requirements

Junior-level standing (60 semester or 90 quarter transferable units completed) by the end of the spring term before you transfer
UC transferable GPA of 3.2 or higher
Completion of major preparation requirements by end of spring prior to transfer
Completion of the following 7-course pattern by spring prior to transfer: *
Two transferable courses in: English composition, critical thinking and writing
One transferable math course with a prerequisite of intermediate algebra or higher
Four transferable college courses in at least two of the following subject areas:
arts and humanities
social and behavioral sciences
physical and biological sciences
*The 7-course pattern is not a requirement for intercampus transfer applicants, since they are considered to be UC eligible based on their prior admission as a first-year.

Personal Factors

Examples include, but are not limited to the following:

Employment while attending school
Involvement in campus organizations and community service
Family responsibilities
Significant improvement in academic performance over time
Military service
Other opportunities or challenges that may have shaped your educational experience
Learn more about transfer requirements

Transfer Requirements
In addition to your UC application, we perform a comprehensive review of your academic preparation, personal criteria and your answers to the personal insight questions. Read on to learn more.

Academic Preparation
Strong academic preparation and performance make you a more competitive candidate during the admission review process.

The average GPA of admitted transfer students is above 3.5 and admitted students have completed most or all major preparatory courses. We give highest priority to applicants from California community colleges and other UC campuses. UCLA admits students for fall quarter only.

Following are many of the criteria we consider:

Junior-level standing (60 semester or 90 quarter transferable units completed) by the end of the spring term before you transfer.
GPA of 3.2 or higher earned in transferable courses.
Completion of the following 7-course pattern by spring prior to transfer:
Two transferable courses in English composition or critical thinking and writing.
One transferable math course that has a prerequisite of intermediate algebra or higher.
Four transferable college courses in at least two of the following subject areas: 
arts and humanities
social and behavioral sciences
physical and biological sciences
Progress toward completion of major preparation requirements by spring prior to transfer.
There may be additional lower-division requirements that students can complete at their current institutions or at UCLA. Should a major not have specific prerequisites, we expect students to demonstrate interest in academic study by completing coursework related to the major.
Applicants from another UC campus
Applicants who were admitted to another UC campus as a first-year and have enrolled in a regular term (fall, winter, spring) at another UC campus are not required to complete the 7-course pattern, as they are considered to be UC eligible based on their prior admission as a first-year.

All coursework from any UC campus is transferable. Extension courses are transferable if numbered 1-199.

Get school or major-specific criteria
Learn about criteria for international students
Personal Criteria
Employment while attending school
Involvement in campus organizations and community service
Family responsibilities
A return to school where early grades are not indicative of strong academic performance
Military service
Other opportunities or challenges that may have shaped your educational experiences
Personal Insight Questions
The personal insight questions are just that — personal. This is your chance to augment the information elsewhere in your application and give us more insight into you during the review process.
 
As a transfer applicant, you may respond to one required question and three out of seven additional questions. Find out how to best answer these personal insight questions.

Planning Your Academic Transition
You’re strongly encouraged to take your required English and math courses as early as possible with at least one English course and math course completed by the end of fall.
To be competitive for admission to UCLA, focus on completing the general UC transfer requirements and major preparation first.
Look into Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC), which enables California community college students to complete UC general education requirements before they transfer. It’s not a requirement for UCLA, but is strongly recommended for students applying to all schools but the Samueli School of Engineering. Students can use the summer prior to transferring to finish remaining courses for IGETC, but these courses can’t be used to meet transfer admission requirements.
Know that UCLA doesn’t pre-evaluate course transferability prior to submission of an application.
Double-check your coursework on ASSIST. Students may be deficient units because a course was not transferable or did not receive credit due to limitations, duplications or other restrictions.
Take advantage of UC Transfer Admission Planner (UC TAP), an online tool that helps students transferring from California community colleges track and plan their coursework.
If you’ve completed courses outside the California Community College system, compare those course descriptions with those in the UCLA General Catalog.
Know that courses completed in the summer immediately prior to transfer can’t be used to fulfill the minimum unit requirement.
Preparation for Your Major
You must complete your major preparation requirements by the end of spring prior to transfer.

However, if you’re applying to a highly selective major, complete the majority of your major prep as early as possible. The most competitive applicants for business economics, economics and psychology will have completed all major prep by the end of fall prior to transfer.

Majors in the College of Letters and Science
Majors in the School of the Arts and Architecture
Majors in the Samueli School of Engineering
Majors in the Herb Alpert School of Music
Majors in the School of Nursing
Majors in the Luskin School of Public Affairs
Majors in the School of Theater, Film and Television
Majors in the School of Education & Information Studies
Majors in the Fielding School of Public Health
Filling Out Your UC Application
Report courses exactly as they appear on your transcript, including non-transferable courses and withdrawals. You must report all courses completed at any post-secondary institution. You may not omit any courses or previous institutions from your application.
Provide an accurate email address on your application and check that account regularly. You may receive important information via email during the admission review process.
List the language of instruction at your high school.
Provide your fall grades and planned spring coursework in January. To do so, log in to your application and create a Transfer Academic Update (TAU) by January 31. We can’t review your application if you have not submitted your TAU.
Explain any gaps in education.
Withdrawals, incomplete grades and academic renewals are not necessarily viewed negatively. Take time to address these in your application so that we have a clear understanding of your academic progress.
You can import information directly into the UC Application from the UC TAP.